* Continuity is expressed in terms of neighborhoods: f is continuous at some point x ∈ X if and only if for any neighborhood V of f(x), there is a neighborhood U of x such that f(U) ⊆ V.就是epsilon-delta语言
*  The standard topology on R is generated by the open intervals. The set of all open intervals forms a base or basis for the topology, meaning that every open set is a union of some collection of sets from the base.
*   An extreme example: if a set X is given the discrete topology (in which every subset is open), all functions
f\colon X \rightarrow T
to any topological space T are continuous. 
* In several contexts, the topology of a space is conveniently specified in terms of limit points. In many instances, this is accomplished by specifying when a point is the limit of a sequence, but for some spaces that are too large in some sense, one specifies also when a point is the limit of more general sets of points indexed by a directed set, known as nets.[5] A function is continuous only if it takes limits of sequences to limits of sequences. In the former case, preservation of limits is also sufficient; in the latter, a function may preserve all limits of sequences yet still fail to be continuous, and preservation of nets is a necessary and sufficient condition.
* For non first-countable spaces, sequential continuity might be strictly weaker than continuity.
* In detail, a function f: X → Y is sequentially continuous if whenever a sequence (xn) in X converges to a limit x, the sequence (f(xn)) converges to f(x).[6] Thus sequentially continuous functions "preserve sequential limits". Every continuous function is sequentially continuous. If X is a first-countable space and countable choice holds, then the converse also holds: any function preserving sequential limits is continuous.
* If X and Y are metric spaces, it is equivalent to consider the neighborhood system of open balls centered at x and f(x) instead of all neighborhoods. This gives back the above δ-ε definition of continuity in the context of metric spaces. However, in general topological spaces, there is no notion of nearness or distance.
* The possible topologies on a fixed set X are partially ordered: a topology τ1 is said to be coarser than another topology τ2(notation: τ1 ⊆ τ2) if every open subset with respect to τ1 is also open with respect to τ2. Then, the identity map
idX: (X, τ2) → (X, τ1)
is continuous if and only if τ1 ⊆ τ2 (see also comparison of topologies). More generally, a continuous function

stays continuous if the topology τY is replaced by a coarser topology and/or τX is replaced by a finer topology.

* Every closed interval in R of finite length is compact. More is true: In Rn, a set is compact if and only if it is closed and bounded. (See Heine–Borel theorem).
* Every sequence of points in a compact metric space has a convergent subsequence.
Every sequence of points in a compact metric space has a convergent subsequence.
* A compact subset of a Hausdorff space is closed.  
* Thus the final topology can be characterized as the finest topology on S that makes f continuous. If f is surjective, this topology is canonically identified with the quotient topology under the equivalence relation defined by f.*
* A compact subset of a Hausdorff space is closed.
* Every component is a closed subset of the original space.Every component is a closed subset of the original space. It follows that, in the case where their number is finite, each component is also an open subset. However, if their number is infinite, this might not be the case; for instance, the connected components of the set of the rational numbers are the one-point sets, which are not open.
* Given X such that
X := \prod_{i \in I} X_i,
is the Cartesian product of the topological spaces Xi, indexed by , and the canonical projections pi : X → Xi, theproduct topology on X is defined to be the coarsest topology (i.e. the topology with the fewest open sets) for which all the projections pi are continu
* A space in which all components are one-point sets is called totally disconnected. Related to this property, a space X is called totally separated if, for any two distinct elements x and y of X, there exist disjoint open neighborhoods U of x and Vof y such that X is the union of U and V. Clearly any totally separated space is totally disconnected, but the converse does not hold. For example take two copies of the rational numbers Q, and identify them at every point except zero. The resulting space, with the quotient topology, is totally disconnected. However, by considering the two copies of zero, one sees that the space is not totally separated. In fact, it is not even Hausdorff, and the condition of being totally separated is strictly stronger than the condition of being Hausdorff.
* The product topology on X is the topology generated by sets of the form pi−1(U), where i is in I and U is an open subset of Xi. In other words, the sets {pi−1(U)} form a subbase for the topology on X. A subset of X is open if and only if it is a (possibly infinite) union of intersections of finitely many sets of the form pi−1(U). 
* X is T2½, or Urysohn, if any two distinct points in X are separated by closed neighbourhoods. A T2½ space must also be Hausdorff.
X is regular, or T3, if it is T0 and if given any point x and closed set F in X such that x does not belong to F, they are separated by neighbourhoods. (In fact, in a regular space, any such x and F will also be separated by closed neighbourhoods.)
X is Tychonoff, or T3½, completely T3, or completely regular, if it is T0 and if f, given any point x and closed set F in X such that x does not belong to F, they are separated by a continuous function.
X is normal, or T4, if it is Hausdorff and if any two disjoint closed subsets of X are separated by neighbourhoods. (In fact, a space is normal if and only if any two disjoint closed sets can be separated by a continuous function; this is Urysohn's lemma.)
X is completely normal, or T5 or completely T4, if it is T1. and if any two separated sets are separated by neighbourhoods. A completely normal space must also be normal.
X is perfectly normal, or T6 or perfectly T4, if it is T1 and if any two disjoint closed sets are precisely separated by a continuous function. A perfectly normal Hausdorff space must also be completely normal Hausdorff.
* The Tietze extension theorem: In a normal space, every continuous real-valued function defined on a closed subspace can be extended to a continuous map defined on the whole space.
* 

[compactness](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compactness)

*  Compactness, when defined in this manner, often allows one to take information that is known locally—in a neighbourhood of each point of the space—and to extend it to information that holds globally throughout the space. An example of this phenomenon is Dirichlet's theorem, to which it was originally applied by Heine, that a continuous function on a compact interval is uniformly continuous: here continuity is a local property of the function, and uniform continuity the corresponding global property.
*  This property was significant because it allowed for the passage from local information about a set (such as the continuity of a function) to global information about the set (such as the uniform continuity of a function).
*  Two compact Hausdorff spaces X1 and X2 are homeomorphic if and only if their rings of continuous real-valued functions C(X1) and C(X2) are isomorphic. (Gelfand–Naimark theorem) Properties of the Banach space of continuous functions on a compact Hausdorff space are central to abstract analysis.
*  